.Dd October 23, 2014
.Dt SERVERPRINT 1
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm serverprint
.Nd printing with remote printers (utilizing ssh/scp)
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
. Op Fl p Ar printername
. Op Fl s Ar servername
. Op Fl n Ar number-of-copies
. Op Fl c
. Op Fl o Qq lpr-options
. Pa file/to/be/printed.pdf
. Op Pa other/file/to/be/printed.pdf
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
allows you print files to a remote printer over a ssh-connection
.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag
. It Fl c Ns , Fl Fl convert
.  No is activated by default (so providing -c is basically a no-op).
.  No Converts the given (PDF-)file if appropriate.
.  No Appropriateness is determined by the PDF-version and the page size.
.  No If the page size does not match Din A4 or
.  No the PDF-version is not equal to Qq 1.4 Ns .
.
. It Fl Fl no-convert
.  No Deactivate the convert mode. See more information above Pq Fl c Ns .
.
. It Fl s Ar servername
.  No Uses the given server to make the ssh and scp connection.
.  No Allows servernames from an ssh-config.
.  No Defaults to Qq stuga Ns .
.
. It Fl p Ar printername
.  No Use the given printer to print on the server.
.  No Defaults to Qq Stuga Ns .
.
. It Fl n Ar number-of-copies
.  No Number of copies to print.
.  No Is equivalent to the lpr-option Qq -# Ns .
.  No Defaults to Qq 1 Ns .
.
. It Fl Fl two-sided
.  No Print on the front and the back page (default).
.
. It Fl Fl one-sided
.  No Print only on the front of the page.
.
. It Fl Fl no-side
.  No Send no page-side information to the print-server (use the CUPS default).
.
. It Fl Fl pages-per-print-page Ar number
.  No The number of pages in the file that are to be printed on one actual page.
.  No This number must either be divideable by 2 (i.e. 2, 4, 6, 8, ...)
.  No or equal 1 (the default).
.
. It Fl Fl page Ar number
.  No The specific number of the page that should be printed.
.
. It Fl Fl start-on-page Ar number
.  No Starts printing on page specified by number.
.
. It Fl Fl end-after-page Ar number
.  No Ends printing after printing the page specified by number.
.
. It Fl o Qq lpr-options
.  No A string of options to be passed to the lpr command.
.  No This option needs to contain the complete switches and their options.
.  No Also the quotes are mandatory (as there is only one argument).
.El
.
.Sh AUTHOR
.An Tim Reddehase Aq Mt robustus@rightsrestricted.com
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Bl -item
. It
.  Xr serverprint 5
. It
.  Lk https://github.com/0robustus1/serverprint "serverprint project page"
. It
.  Lk http://rightsrestricted.com homepage
.El
