.Dd June 09, 2015
.Dt SERVERPRINTRC 5
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm serverprintrc
.Nd configuration file for the serverprint tool
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.
. Pa ~/.serverprintrc
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
.Bd -filled
There is an order to the madness. Serverprint fetches options/configurations
according to specific ordering, with lower numbers having priority over
higher ones:
.Ed
.Bl -enum
. It
.  No command-line options (switches)
. It
.  No configuration-file
. It
.  No internal defaults
.El
.Bd -filled
As not every setting for serverprint is applicable for a place inside
of the config file (e.g. page-numbers) only a few can be configured
inside of the config-file. Those however will be listed here.
.Ed
.Bd -filled
The configuration file itself consists of key-value pairs. Each pair is placed on one actual line inside of the file. Keys and values are separated by the equals-sign (=).
.Ed
.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
. It Sy server-name
.  No The name of the server to connect to. Should usually be the Host of an ssh-config. Corresponds to the Fl s No switch.
. It Sy printer-name
.  No The name of the printer on the foreign host. Corresponds to the Fl p No switch.
. It Sy auto-convert
.  No Whether or not auto-convert should be tried on pdf-files. Needs a numeric argument, with Em 1 No representing true/on and Em 0 No representing false/off.
. It Sy number-of-copies
.  No Sets the default number of copies for every print-task.
.El
.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
. It Pa ~/.serverprintrc
The per-user configuration file.
. It Pa /usr/share/serverprint/examples/
Contains an example configuration for the serverprintrc file.
.
.Sh AUTHOR
.An Tim Reddehase Aq Mt robustus@rightsrestricted.com
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Bl -item
. It
.  Xr serverprint 1
. It
.  Lk https://github.com/0robustus1/serverprint "serverprint project page"
. It
.  Lk http://rightsrestricted.com homepage
.El
