.Dd October 23, 2014
.Dt SERVERPRINT 1
.Os
.
.Sh NAME
.Nm serverprint
.Nd printing with remote printers (utilizing ssh/scp)
.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
. Op Fl p Ar printername
. Op Fl s Ar servername
. Op Fl n Ar number-of-copies
. Op Fl c
. Op Fl o Qq lpr-options
. Fl f Pa file/to/be/printed.pdf
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
allows you print files to a remote printer over a ssh-connection
.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag
. It Fl f Pa file/to/be/printed.pdf
.  No The path to the actual file that is supposed to be printed.
.
. It Fl c
.  No Converts the given (PDF-)file if appropriate.
.  No Appropriateness is determined by the PDF-version and the page size.
.  No If the page size does not match Din A4 or
.  No the PDF-version is not equal to Qq 1.4 Ns .
.
. It Fl s Ar servername
.  No Uses the given server to make the ssh and scp connection.
.  No Allows servernames from an ssh-config.
.  No Defaults to Qq stuga Ns .
.
. It Fl p Ar printername
.  No Use the given printer to print on the server.
.  No Defaults to Qq Stuga Ns .
.
. It Fl n Ar number-of-copies
.  No Number of copies to print.
.  No Is equivalent to the lpr-option Qq -# Ns .
.  No Defaults to Qq 1 Ns .
.
. It Fl o Qq lpr-options
.  No A string of options to be passed to the lpr command.
.  No This option needs to contain the complete switches and their options.
.  No Also the quotes are mandatory (as there is only one argument).
.El
.
.Sh AUTHOR
.An Tim Reddehase Aq Mt robustus@rightsrestricted.com
.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Bl -item
. It
.  Lk https://github.com/0robustus1/serverprint "serverprint project page"
. It
.  Lk http://rightsrestricted.com homepage
.El
